README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.demolab.com?font=Fira+Code&size=32&duration=2800&pause=2000&color=A9FEF7&center=true&vCenter=true&width=940&lines=Hey!+It's+Akash+here!;I'm+a+passionate+learner;I+love+creating+innovative+solutions;Focusing+on+AI%2FML+and...+Cloud+Computing!;Welcome+to+my+GitHub+profile!" alt="Typing SVG" />
</div>

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=TheArchitect416&color=0e75b6&style=flat" alt="Profile Views" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/followers/TheArchitect416?label=Followers&style=social" alt="GitHub Badge" />
</div>

---

<div align="center">
  
## 🚀 About Me

> *"Architecting solutions, one line of code at a time."*

</div>

- 🔭 I'm currently developing **VidyaSarathi** and **Quantrol**.
- 🌱 I'm deep-diving into **AWS Cloud Architecture** and **Java Fundamentals**.
- 🧠 I'm interested in **Generative AI, LLMs, and Machine Learning**.
- 🤔 I'm looking for collaboration on **DSA efficiency** and **System Design**.
- ⚡ **Fun fact:** When I'm not coding, I write poetry. Check it out at **[@poems.with.akash](https://www.instagram.com/poems.with.akash)**.
- 📫 Reach me at: **[akashathreyas@gmail.com](mailto:akashathreyas@gmail.com)**

---

## 🛠️ Languages and Tools

<div align="center">

| **Domain** | **Technologies** |
|:---:|:---|
| **Languages** | ![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white) ![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-ED8B00?style=flat-square&logo=openjdk&logoColor=white) ![C++](https://img.shields.io/badge/C++-00599C?style=flat-square&logo=c%2B%2B&logoColor=white) ![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-3178C6?style=flat-square&logo=typescript&logoColor=white) |
| **Backend** | ![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-339933?style=flat-square&logo=node.js&logoColor=white) ![Express.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Express.js-000000?style=flat-square&logo=express&logoColor=white) ![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-009688?style=flat-square&logo=fastapi&logoColor=white) |
| **Database** | ![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-47A248?style=flat-square&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white) ![PostgreSQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/PostgreSQL-336791?style=flat-square&logo=postgresql&logoColor=white) ![Redis](https://img.shields.io/badge/Redis-DC382D?style=flat-square&logo=redis&logoColor=white) |
| **Cloud & DevOps** | ![AWS](https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-232F3E?style=flat-square&logo=amazon-aws&logoColor=white) ![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?style=flat-square&logo=docker&logoColor=white) ![Kubernetes](https://img.shields.io/badge/Kubernetes-326CE5?style=flat-square&logo=kubernetes&logoColor=white) ![GCP](https://img.shields.io/badge/Google_Cloud-4285F4?style=flat-square&logo=google-cloud&logoColor=white) |
| **IDEs & Tools** | ![VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code-007ACC?style=flat-square&logo=visual-studio-code&logoColor=white) ![IntelliJ](https://img.shields.io/badge/IntelliJ_IDEA-000000?style=flat-square&logo=intellij-idea&logoColor=white) ![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?style=flat-square&logo=git&logoColor=white) ![Notion](https://img.shields.io/badge/Notion-000000?style=flat-square&logo=notion&logoColor=white) |

</div>

---

## 🎯 Featured Projects

| Project | Description | Tech Stack |
|:---|:---|:---|
| **VidyaSarathi** | *Current Focus.* A comprehensive educational platform/engine. | `Next.js` `AI/ML` |
| **Quantrol** | *Current Focus.* A tool for quantitative analysis and control. | `Python` `Data` |
| **Project 3** | *Loading...* working on deploying innovative solutions. | `Cloud` `AWS` |

---

<div align="center">

## 🏆 GitHub Trophies
[![trophy](https://github-profile-trophy.vercel.app/?username=TheArchitect416&theme=tokyonight&no-frame=true&row=1&column=7)](https://github.com/ryo-ma/github-profile-trophy)

## 📊 GitHub Statistics

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-stats-six-psi.vercel.app/api?username=TheArchitect416&show_icons=true&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true&count_private=true&include_all_commits=true" alt="GitHub Stats" width="48%" />
  <img src="https://github-readme-streak-stats.herokuapp.com/?user=TheArchitect416&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true" alt="GitHub Streak" width="48%" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-stats-six-psi.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=TheArchitect416&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true&layout=compact&langs_count=8" alt="Top Languages" width="48%" />
</p>

</div>

### 🐍 Contribution History

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TheArchitect416/TheArchitect416/output/snake.svg" alt="Snake animation" width="100%" />
</div>

<details>
<summary>⚡ <strong>Expand for Detailed Metrics</strong></summary>
<br/>
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github-profile-summary-cards.vercel.app/api/cards/profile-details?username=TheArchitect416&theme=github_dark" alt="Profile Details">
  <br/>
  <img src="https://github-profile-summary-cards.vercel.app/api/cards/productive-time?username=TheArchitect416&theme=github_dark&utcOffset=8" alt="Productive Time">
</div>
</details>

---

## 📚 Akash's Bookshelf

<div align="center">

| | **Book** | **Rating** |
|:---:|:---|:---:|
| [![A Confession](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1348237118l/26244._SX50_.jpg)](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7898413617) | **[A Confession](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7898413617)**<br>*by [Leo Tolstoy](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/128382.Leo_Tolstoy)* | ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ |
| [![Poems for the Lost](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1669939508l/63905047._SY75_.jpg)](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7898402118) | **[Poems for the Lost...](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7898402118)**<br>*by [Exurb1a](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/15241440.Exurb1a)* | ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ |
| [![The Sorrows of Young Werther](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1386920896l/16640._SY75_.jpg)](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7898397117) | **[The Sorrows of Young Werther](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7898397117)**<br>*by [Goethe](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/285217.Johann_Wolfgang_von_Goethe)* | ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ |

<a href="https://www.goodreads.com/">
  <img src="https://s.gr-assets.com/images/widget/widget_logo.gif" alt="goodreads.com" />
</a>

</div>

---

## 📫 Connect with Me

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/akash-m-athreyas-1b0556257/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white" alt="LinkedIn" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/TheArchitect416">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-181717?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white" alt="GitHub" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://instagram.com/akash.m.athreyas">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Instagram-E4405F?style=for-the-badge&logo=instagram&logoColor=white" alt="Instagram" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://open.spotify.com/user/3wbvd1d65wqhgfb67ctdfp7hd">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Spotify-1DB954?style=for-the-badge&logo=spotify&logoColor=white" alt="Spotify" />
  </a>
  <a href="mailto:akashathreyas@gmail.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Gmail-D14836?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white" alt="Gmail" />
  </a>
</div>

---

![Eugene's Coder GIF](https://wsrv.nl/?url=https://i.giphy.com/ZVik7pBtu9dNS.webp&output=gif&n=-1)

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://capsule-render.vercel.app/api?type=waving&color=gradient&customColorList=6,11,20&height=100&section=footer&text=Thanks%20for%20visiting!&fontSize=30&fontColor=fff&animation=twinkling&fontAlignY=50"/>
  
  <p>💫 <i>Show some ❤️ by starring my repositories!</i></p>
</div>

Commit message:

Revise bookshelf section and book details
Updated section title and modified book entries to include additional details and tags.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.demolab.com?font=Fira+Code&size=32&duration=2800&pause=2000&color=A9FEF7&center=true&vCenter=true&width=940&lines=Hey!+It's+Akash+here!;I'm+a+passionate+learner;I+love+creating+innovative+solutions;Focusing+on+AI%2FML+and...+Cloud+Computing!;Welcome+to+my+GitHub+profile!" alt="Typing SVG" />
</div>

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=TheArchitect416&color=0e75b6&style=flat" alt="Profile Views" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/followers/TheArchitect416?label=Followers&style=social" alt="GitHub Badge" />
</div>

---

<div align="center">
  
## 🚀 About Me

> *"Architecting solutions, one line of code at a time."*

</div>

- 🔭 I'm currently developing **VidyaSarathi** and **Quantrol**.
- 🌱 I'm deep-diving into **AWS Cloud Architecture** and **Java Fundamentals**.
- 🧠 I'm interested in **Generative AI, LLMs, and Machine Learning**.
- 🤔 I'm looking for collaboration on **DSA efficiency** and **System Design**.
- ⚡ **Fun fact:** When I'm not coding, I write poetry. Check it out at **[@poems.with.akash](https://www.instagram.com/poems.with.akash)**.
- 📫 Reach me at: **[akashathreyas@gmail.com](mailto:akashathreyas@gmail.com)**

---

## 🛠️ Languages and Tools

<div align="center">

| **Domain** | **Technologies** |
|:---:|:---|
| **Languages** | ![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white) ![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-ED8B00?style=flat-square&logo=openjdk&logoColor=white) ![C++](https://img.shields.io/badge/C++-00599C?style=flat-square&logo=c%2B%2B&logoColor=white) ![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-3178C6?style=flat-square&logo=typescript&logoColor=white) |
| **Backend** | ![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-339933?style=flat-square&logo=node.js&logoColor=white) ![Express.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Express.js-000000?style=flat-square&logo=express&logoColor=white) ![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-009688?style=flat-square&logo=fastapi&logoColor=white) |
| **Database** | ![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-47A248?style=flat-square&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white) ![PostgreSQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/PostgreSQL-336791?style=flat-square&logo=postgresql&logoColor=white) ![Redis](https://img.shields.io/badge/Redis-DC382D?style=flat-square&logo=redis&logoColor=white) |
| **Cloud & DevOps** | ![AWS](https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS-232F3E?style=flat-square&logo=amazon-aws&logoColor=white) ![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?style=flat-square&logo=docker&logoColor=white) ![Kubernetes](https://img.shields.io/badge/Kubernetes-326CE5?style=flat-square&logo=kubernetes&logoColor=white) ![GCP](https://img.shields.io/badge/Google_Cloud-4285F4?style=flat-square&logo=google-cloud&logoColor=white) |
| **IDEs & Tools** | ![VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code-007ACC?style=flat-square&logo=visual-studio-code&logoColor=white) ![IntelliJ](https://img.shields.io/badge/IntelliJ_IDEA-000000?style=flat-square&logo=intellij-idea&logoColor=white) ![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?style=flat-square&logo=git&logoColor=white) ![Notion](https://img.shields.io/badge/Notion-000000?style=flat-square&logo=notion&logoColor=white) |

</div>

---

## 🎯 Featured Projects

| Project | Description | Tech Stack |
|:---|:---|:---|
| **VidyaSarathi** | *Current Focus.* A comprehensive educational platform/engine. | `Next.js` `AI/ML` |
| **Quantrol** | *Current Focus.* A tool for quantitative analysis and control. | `Python` `Data` |
| **Project 3** | *Loading...* working on deploying innovative solutions. | `Cloud` `AWS` |

---

<div align="center">

## 🏆 GitHub Trophies
[![trophy](https://github-profile-trophy.vercel.app/?username=TheArchitect416&theme=tokyonight&no-frame=true&row=1&column=7)](https://github.com/ryo-ma/github-profile-trophy)

## 📊 GitHub Statistics

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-stats-six-psi.vercel.app/api?username=TheArchitect416&show_icons=true&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true&count_private=true&include_all_commits=true" alt="GitHub Stats" width="48%" />
  <img src="https://github-readme-streak-stats.herokuapp.com/?user=TheArchitect416&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true" alt="GitHub Streak" width="48%" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-stats-six-psi.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=TheArchitect416&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true&layout=compact&langs_count=8" alt="Top Languages" width="48%" />
</p>

</div>

### 🐍 Contribution History

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TheArchitect416/TheArchitect416/output/snake.svg" alt="Snake animation" width="100%" />
</div>

<details>
<summary>⚡ <strong>Expand for Detailed Metrics</strong></summary>
<br/>
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github-profile-summary-cards.vercel.app/api/cards/profile-details?username=TheArchitect416&theme=github_dark" alt="Profile Details">
  <br/>
  <img src="https://github-profile-summary-cards.vercel.app/api/cards/productive-time?username=TheArchitect416&theme=github_dark&utcOffset=8" alt="Productive Time">
</div>
</details>

---

## 📚 Akash's Favorite Books

<div align="center">

|                                                                                                                                                                                                       | **Book**                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | **Rating** |
| :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--------: |
|                [![A Confession](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1348237118l/26244._SX50_.jpg)](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7898413617)                | **[A Confession](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7898413617)**<br>_by [Leo Tolstoy](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/128382.Leo_Tolstoy)_<br><sub>tagged: favorite</sub>                                               | ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ |
| [![Poems for the Lost Because I'm Lost Too](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1669939508l/63905047._SY75_.jpg)](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7898402118) | **[Poems for the Lost Because I'm Lost Too](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7898402118)**<br>_by [Exurb1a](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/15241440.Exurb1a)_<br><sub>tagged: favorite</sub>                          | ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ |
|           [![A Stranger to Myself](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1312013221l/115133._SX50_.jpg)](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7898400811)            | **[A Stranger to Myself](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7898400811)**<br>_by [Willy Peter Reese](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/66694.Willy_Peter_Reese)_<br><sub>tagged: favorite</sub>                            | ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ |
|        [![The Sorrows of Young Werther](https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1386920896l/16640._SY75_.jpg)](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7898397117)        | **[The Sorrows of Young Werther](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/7898397117)**<br>_by [Johann Wolfgang von Goethe](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/285217.Johann_Wolfgang_von_Goethe)_<br><sub>tagged: favorite</sub> | ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ |

</div>

<br />


---

## 📫 Connect with Me

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/akash-m-athreyas-1b0556257/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white" alt="LinkedIn" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/TheArchitect416">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-181717?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white" alt="GitHub" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://instagram.com/akash.m.athreyas">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Instagram-E4405F?style=for-the-badge&logo=instagram&logoColor=white" alt="Instagram" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://open.spotify.com/user/3wbvd1d65wqhgfb67ctdfp7hd">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Spotify-1DB954?style=for-the-badge&logo=spotify&logoColor=white" alt="Spotify" />
  </a>
  <a href="mailto:akashathreyas@gmail.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Gmail-D14836?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white" alt="Gmail" />
  </a>
</div>

---

![Eugene's Coder GIF](https://wsrv.nl/?url=https://i.giphy.com/ZVik7pBtu9dNS.webp&output=gif&n=-1)

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://capsule-render.vercel.app/api?type=waving&color=gradient&customColorList=6,11,20&height=100&section=footer&text=Thanks%20for%20visiting!&fontSize=30&fontColor=fff&animation=twinkling&fontAlignY=50"/>
  
  <p>💫 <i>Show some ❤️ by starring my repositories!</i></p>
</div>
